South Africa is set to add a US $7m office development and a seven-floor high residential complex in La Lucia Mall site in KwaZulu at the site of a free parking lot of the mall. Regional Head of owners of of the mall Growthpoint Properties, Greg de Klerk revealed the reports and said that the idea behind the developments, which are still under consideration.“Both of these developments are very much in the design concept stage. The architect’s impressions are subject to refinement and provided we get the necessary approvals from council, the developments are still at this stage under consideration. We also are yet to have the developments approved through our investment committee before going to the marketplace,” said Greg.Also Read: Rwanda to begin construction of US $5bn Green City next year The Regional head explained that office development, situated next to the gym at the La Lucia Mall site, will be tenant-driven. It will be around 4,200 square metres and will be a green star-rated building. The mall site is zoned for offices and we’ve had to apply for a height relaxation on the business side as well as the residential side. “We have done extensive market research, and we feel there is a need for higher density residential flats in that node. At this early stage, the apartment would be seven levels high with three levels of parking above ground. All the apartments will have sea views,” said Mr Greg.Upon receiving the necessary approvals the project is likely to commence with office development in January 2020 and completed by December same year. Greg added that in regards to the residential development, it will begin with laying the groundwork in September and construction likely to commence in January next year and completed by April 2021.He also affirmed that the company had applied for residential rights as well as a height relaxation on the development. “We have advertised the proposals and circulated letters informing the immediate neighbours of the development and nothing has yet been decided as we are awaiting the go-ahead from council. As far as the residential complex is concerned, the plan is to have 62 apartments, which will be a mixture of two bed, two bath, one bed, one bath, and a few studio apartments.”