Our Client- Afreximbank (based in Cairo, Egypt) is a Trade Finance Bank established for the purpose of financing, promoting and expanding intra-African and extra-African trade. The Bank was established through an agreement signed by member states and multilateral organisations and a charter that governs its corporate structure. In addressing the gaps in intra-African trade, the Bank has set up an Investment Holding company (FEDA) under its Equity Investment Programme. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC Nigeria) has therefore been contracted by Afreximbank to recruit experienced and competent individuals to support the FEDA investment team.  The various job roles are detailed below with their responsibilities and requirements: 1) Investment Manager –      Reference: FED 001 Job Summary: To support the Investment Director in implementing FEDA’s investment strategy and managing the activities across FEDA’s investment vehicles. Key Responsibilities: Work with the Investment Director and Investment team to develop a strong pipeline of good quality investment opportunities. Play active role during FEDA’s fund raising process including preparation of marketing materials, investor due diligence, etc. Coordinate screening of potential investment opportunities and recommend viable investments for consideration by FEDA. Work with the Investment Director to develop Investment Committee (IC) presentations and play active role in securing IC approvals of recommended transactions. Coordinate due diligence for new investments and manage advisers appointed by FEDA to support its activities at different stages of the PE investment life cycle. Prepare deal term sheets and negotiate same with management of target companies. Work with the Head of Finance and Operations of FEDA to ensure prompt disbursement of funds for approved investment in line with drawdown schedule agreed with investee companies. Work closely with management of portfolio companies to develop good understanding of their businesses, develop strategy and implement value creation initiatives. Represent FEDA on the Board of assigned portfolio companies. Play active role in monitoring of FEDA’s investment portfolio including review of monthly/quarterly performance reports and timely recommendations to improve performance of portfolio companies. Coordinate divestment of FEDA’s portfolio companies. Oversee the implementation of the ESG Action Plans. Requirements: Bachelor’s degree in Finance, Banking, Accounting, Economics, Sciences, Engineering, etc with strong academic performance. MBA/MSc or PhD/DBA in Finance, Banking and Accounting is strongly preferred. CFA, ACCA /ACA/CPA/CMA or equivalent accounting professional qualification is required. Minimum of 8 years’ work experience 5 of which must have been spent in private equity. Additional relevant experience includes investment banking or Big Four deals/transaction advisory experience, strategy consulting etc. 2) Investment Analyst –      Reference: FED 002 Job Summary: To assist the investment team with the appraisal and execution of investment opportunities Key Responsibilities: Develop/review financial models to support investment transactions and portfolio monitoring. Conduct valuation of target and portfolio companies. Analyse target and portfolio companies’ financial statement and prepare forecasts. Support Investment Manager and Investment Directors in all phases of the PE investment life cycle e.g. deal origination, evaluation of prospective investment, Investment Committee presentations, preparation of fund raising materials, delivery of value creation plan, exit of portfolio companies, drafting deal term sheets for FEDA transactions etc. Support the Investment Manager to coordinate external due diligence and other advisers working with FEDA on transactions or delivery of value creation plan for portfolio companies. Review deliverables of appointed advisers for FEDA’s transactions and prepare summary for the Investment Manager and Investment Directors. Support the Investment Manager in preparing monthly and quarterly reports to FEDA’s investors. Develop in-depth trend and industry analysis and draw relevant conclusions from the analysis. Take charge of scheduling deal execution meetings, track outcomes and implementations. Draft sector reports and research papers from time to time to disseminate knowledge about a specific area related to FEDA investments. Requirements: Bachelor’s Degree in Finance, Banking, Accounting, Economics, Sciences, Engineering etc. with strong academic performance. MBA/MSc in Finance, Economics, Accounting and Banking will be an added advantage. Minimum of 5 years’ work experience, 3 of which must have been spent in private equity. Additional relevant work experience includes investment banking or Big four deals/transaction advisory experience, strategy consulting etc. Certifications such as CFA or ACCA/ACA/CPA also required. *Contractual information: Permanent position and willing and able to relocate to Cairo. Tax-free salaries paid in USD. Qualified candidates should apply by visiting www.pwc.com/ng/executive-search   